Let's move on to the very last topic
we're going to cover today, and
that is AMP pages, or
accelerated mobile pages.
So, if you've ever seen search results
that look like this, and the key to
look for is that little lightning bolt and
a circle with AMP next to it.
This is an attempt to
particularly on mobile devices,
present users with a really fast
loading experience into these links.
Right, ridiculously fast,
nearly instant, mind blowing.
So, in order to make this work, we have
to play by some pretty strict rules.
And the first one is the hardest,
to play what, to play by.
We don't get to put our own JavaScript
on the critical path to rendering.
So this means you're not
gonna be using any component
library to build your AMP HTML.
You you can create iframes that have
JavaScript running inside of those.
But an iframe is not on the critical
path to rendering that outer page.
Right, so
that is the only way that we can do that.
We do get the ability to use
some rich components that
are centrally maintained
in the AMP project.
Which is a collective effort that
is led by Google and Facebook and
a bunch of other companies.
But we can't, there is no react and
there is no Ember and
there is no Angular in an AMP app.
So, all AMP JavaScript,
which is sort of the whitelisted stuff.
The stuff we're allowed to use that
is part of the AMP project that is
executed asynchronously.
What that means is we add the a sync
option to our script tags.
So that, whenever it downloads we
will run it potentially later.
And it'll do what it does,
when it does finally load.
We wanna make sure that we can size
all of our resources in advance.
Similar to what we had
to do with Facebook,
before we even start trying
to draw a Facebook tile,
we already knew what the dimensions
of our image are going to be.
Same goes with AMP.
So we can't use a regular image tag, we
have to use the AMP image component which
looks a little bit like an image tag.
But the key is, size is mandatory, width
and height are mandatory on this thing.
And the understanding here that I have is,
we can compute the layout of the screen
for a variety of viewports, right?
Variety of viewport sizes,
we can lay everything out in advance, and
really rely on that
calculation being correct.
So there will be no reflows, and
no shuffling around that might make
the layout engine have to work too hard.
We don't let anything block rendering.
So this a sync JavaScript
makes it not block rendering
the ability to not include an external
stylesheet, which is the next thing here.
That makes it so we can't block rendering.
We can have inline styles up to a limit
of 50 kilobytes, which is a lot of style.
But it probably means that we're not
going to have one stylesheet for
our entire application.
And it means you're probably not going
to be using Twitter Bootstrap and
material design for your AMP pages.
You're gonna be building things that are a
little bit more minimal with the goal of
making them as fast as possible.
A part of making sure that
everything is either expressed
directly in the HTML or
taken off the critical path.
Is that, there's a focus on making sure
the heaviest thing about these AMP pages
gets to start downloading right away and
that is web fonts.
So typically what would happen is,
you'd have a reference to
an external stylesheet.
You download that, parse it, start
evaluating all of the statements in it,
you'd encounter an at
font face declaration.
And now you're gonna go and
start making a second request out and
begin downloading these up to 400 kilobyte
font that you're using for this thing.
So the fact that
the stylesheet is in line,
means we don't have the first
HTTP request to make.
And the fact that the JavaScript is
a sync means nothing else blocks,
the web font download from happening.
It is basically one of the first priority
things to happen to get that started.
So broadly there's a focus on prefetching
resources as early as you can,
and then evaluating them as
late as possible in the game.
So that means that
images are not rendered,
until they're actually about to be
scrolled into the viewport themselves.
But you may find that we
pre-cache the image as
you start to approach
that scroll position.
There's a new standard called preconnect
for trying to download content in advance.
And this basically means that,
your browser can start
the initial groundwork for
making a request before you actually
say that you wanna make the request.
And this might just be limited to getting
DNS resolution out of the way and
finding the IP address that
you actually have to hit.
It might be like starting to actually
download the smallest pieces of
a particular file, or at least getting a
list of resources that you have to fetch.
But it's sort of a broad term for getting
a head start before the click happens.
So in terms of getting started
with our first AMP app, and
this is the last activity
we're gonna do today.
And one that might be a little more
challenging than what we've done today,
although not terribly challenging, is you
begin by bringing in the AMP runtime.
And so, this is something that
is hosted on the AMP project's
CDN as part of this link itself exactly.
Its job is to basically
control the downloading and
controlling the resource, download,
and presentation pipeline.
So that they can make sure that rather
than falling back to typical request
priority, where first you get the HTML and
then the JavaScript and the CSS.
And then finally,
images are coming in after that, and
web fonts are very low priority.
It gets to make some more dynamic
decisions about what's going on.
You also have to add this
amp-boilerplate style block,
which I believe is already in
the the starter project that I gave you.
It has to be exactly this style block.
It involves putting in place a CSS
animation that helps kind of transition,
an AMP page interview
as a user taps on it.
This is also linked to an official
GitHub page where you can get
that style block if you need to copy and
paste it from here.
In terms of dealing with images, we can't
use the image tag for a few reasons.
First, there's this
concept of source sets.
And source sets allow us to, based on
device pixel ratio, right, whether it's
a low resolution or a high resolution or
a very high resolution device.
We can actually specify a different
source file to use for an image tag.
But not all browsers support this yet.
All browsers that AMP will show up on,
right so
I think this is not IE9 and above.
This is mobile browsers, and so it is the
latest versions of both Safari and Chrome.
They're going to support this
source that'll work here,
you'll notice that we have height and
width explicitly to find.
The alt tag is exactly the alt attribute
does what you think it would do.
And here,
because we know height and width,
we can lay the page out,
we know exactly what's going to happen.
So, what an image tag does by default is,
when a browser reaches it in HTML,
it'll just start going to
fetch that image right away.
That's part of what happens when it runs
into an image tag, it goes and gets it.
We don't want that to necessarily happen.
And part of the reason is that,
you wanna save as much data and
as much battery as you can
on these mobile devices.
So this amp-image component
has a little bit more
control over when we go and
download that image.
And it might be that, it's so far below
the fold that users are unlikely to
scroll to it and so
it'll never get downloaded or rendered.
But like in order to do that, in order to
put more sophisticated logic in place,
we have to move away from an image tag.
If you write custom CSS, you just have
to write amp-custom as an attribute
in the open tag of your style block, and
you can put your custom CSS in there.
Keep in mind that important
is absolutely not allowed, so
your pages will not show up as AMP
pages if you attempt to use important.
The sort of get rejected as doing
something against the rules, so
you're not in fast mode anymore.
And if you use transition, only GPU
accelerated properties can be used.
And so, there's no,
you will do no fancy animation of left to
right position or something like that.
Only things we can lean on the GPU for
that have to do with the compositing of
layers, rather than painting
of layers themselves, right?
Because we don't want repainting over and
over mobile browsers really slow at that.